
# Sesi Adams (z5074999)

## Week 1
### 15.09.2022
Today I read the range of project briefs available to choose from ahead of the tutorial. I made some notes on each brief. In light of reading the briefs, I had a preference for either event or wait management systems. This is because they quite structured systems.

I attended the tutorial at 6pm. I was able to join a group. My team members were Miguel, Neel, Yuk and Andrew. However, the members present at the tutorial were Miguel and Yuk (Neel and Andrew were absent). I was assigned as the team's Scrum master and would be focused on working on frontend/frontend design.

During the meeting we discussed the project we would be working on. We agreed on a custom proposal based on Miguel's idea of an improved forum for Education. 

After agreeing on a custom project proposal, as team we spent the rest of the tutorial discussing the details of the forum and creating the proposal. Miguel would finish off the proposal after the tutorial and submit it in the evening to Frank (our tutor). Frank would then forward the proposal to the lecturer for review.

Later in the evening, Miguel linked us the custom project request and I just proofread it and fixed a minor typo. Miguel later sent it to the tutor.

### 16.09.2022
I messaged Miguel in the group chat to follow up as to whether he had heard from the lecturer/tutor regarding the custom project proposal. Miguel said that Frank (our tutor) had forwarded the proposal but no response from the lecturer was received yet.

## Week 2
### 19.09.2022
I messaged the group chat to follow up on the custom project proposal feedback. Miguel informed us that he still had not received a reply.

### 20.09.2022
I logged into GitHub so that I could join and create a classroom and link it to JIRA. However, this wasn't working for most students.

Miguel also notified the team that we had received feedback for our proposal which was that the custom project lacked novelty. Miguel and I discussed ways, following the email, that we could demonstrate that the project - in partcular the triage - was a unique and novel idea. I was happy to meet up as a team prior to this week's tutorial to update the proposal and re-submit for feedback. Miguel then created the Discord server so the team could have meetings.

After the Discord server was created, I @'ed members of our team and asked them to join so we could have a meeting regarding the custom project proposal. I tried again in the afternoon to assess GitHub but was still blocked like the majority of students.

### 21.09.2022
We had a team meeting in the evening to develop and refine the proposal. After doing so, Miguel then submitted the updated report for feedback and approval.
### 23.09.2022
Even though today was a public holiday, we still had a tutorial. This was fine as it was an opportunity for our group to meet up for a meeting. Our proposal was approved which was great as we could now start working on the project and the proposal. We were also able to correctly set up JIRA and have Frank set up the connection between JIRA and GitHub. We discussed the technical side of the project and also assigned sections of the proposal amongst the team. My role was the storyboard and sprint layout.
## Week 3
### 28.09.2022
Miguel reached out for a group meeting regarding the proposal. However, most of us opted to have the meeting in the tutorial tomorrow as most had not done much. 

I also asked the group to agree to a platform of communication as it had been split between Discord and Messenger. The group agreed to have the majority of communication done over Discord. However, if the communication/task was urgent, to reach out to team members over Messenger.
### 29.09.2022 
We had a team meeting today during the tutorial. I was about an hour late as I live far and was running late. The majority of the meeting was to discuss the interface and what it would look it as well as functionality and behaviour of the forum. The meeting was insightful and helped me immensely as I knew how the team envisioned the forum to look like and could begin wireframing/storyboarding.
### 30.09.2022
I spent most of the day today wireframing. I managed to make welcome pages, third party  sign up and authentication pages, login pages, sign up pages, the browse/landing pages, forum pages and posts, forget password pages, etc. and versions of the above pages for the student and for the tutor. 

### 01.10.2022
Today a meeting was held around 7pm. The people who attended were myself, Miguel and Yuk. As a huge issue was that there were no user stories written, we spent the majority of the meeting writing user stories for the upcoming proposal. There were changes to the project that would need to be reflected in the user interface. By the end of the meeting we had completed the user stories required for the project and which reflected the requirements outlined in our custom project pitch. The acceptance criteria would be completed at a later time. The meeting then ended.

I decided that it would be best to wait until user stories and acceptance criteria were finalised to do the user interface since it would be inefficient to wireframe when substantial changes were still being made or aspects of the design were still being decided upon. I also had coursework due for other courses as well. 
## Week 4
### 03.10.2022
Our group had a meeting today to discuss the proposal. I was in and out of the meeting. If I was needed then I joined the meeting. Otherwise, I would step away as I also had coursework for other courses due around the same time as the proposal.

Later in the evening, after all the user story/acceptance criteria changes were made and the proposal was finalised by the team I started to do the storyboard / interface design. As I had started wireframing last week, I was not starting from scratch but there were a lot of changes to be made to previously completed frames, as the group had made changes to initial ideas discussed in previous meetings which was reflected in the user stories and  acceptance criteria.

### 04.10.2022
I spent all night in the lead up to the proposal deadline wireframing the entirety of our forum Ensemble. At around 7am, since Yuk as awake, he was able to help me wireframe the tutor pages and customisation pages. This was a big help and the storyboard was able to be completed for the most part. 

I also created the sprint time line and chose the stories for sprint 1. I chose the 5 sprint structure as we would begin the project in week 4 and it was not feasible to do the 3 sprint structure which would have required us to start coding mid-week 3. Further, I chose to put about 12 stories into our first sprint. This is because we had around 60 stories and 5 sprints, so each sprint would average around 10-12 stories. Further, the first sprint was to have the key stories that would develop an MVP. As a result, all 12 stories were of high priority and reflected key features/functionality required for a basic Ensemble forum.

Once the report was finalised, I submitted the report. 
### 06.10.2022
Today was the tutorial. As there was no demo/retrospective, the tutorial was mainly a 2 hour meeting for our team. We began to discuss how to go about our project. We started to define routes and a spreadsheet was created to maintain the list of routes, its parameters and return data as well. Miguel was also able to ask about using zid's for authentication which, upon receiving an answer, was easier to do then initially thought. We agreed at the end of the tutorial to meet on Saturday to complete the route table.
### 08.10.2022
We had a group meeting to discuss the project and code. We decided to take the tutor's offer of removing 2 user stories for sprint 1. I sent an email during the meeting to Frank (our tutor) to let him know. I also informed the team during the meeting that the email was sent. 

A bulk of the meeting was our group completing a route table, this would greatly assist the team in the long run as we would have a list of routes agreed upon and accessible to all team members. Routes were defined, along with parameters, types and returned data. While I did help fill out the spreadsheet, I mainly did a lot of proofreading and asking of questions to help clarify what was written about the routes. Which, lead to clearer descriptions of routes and their purpose which would hopefully help the group in the long run. 

I also approved Neel's merge request - it was predominately a lot of set up files and configuration for the frontend. There was also the issue of not being able to add multiple team members to a user story on JIRA which I opted to help find a solution. The meeting was done soon after the routes were defined. 

Post meeting, I also ran the front end on my computer to show that it worked not just for Neel but other members of the team. I also spent some time trying to make a custom field for our JIRA board so that we could assign more than one member to a story. Though I was able to create a custom field it wasn't appearing on the board. I was able to find a way to create a field for members to use to assign multiple members to a story and let my team know. I also let my team know that Frank had received our email that we were taking up his offer and removing 2 user stories from sprint 1.
## Week 5
### 10.10.2022
Neel reached out on the group chat to organise a meeting where he could go through the frontend he had set up. We agreed on a time of 2pm tomorrow. 

### 11.10.2022
Just after 2pm, Neel and I met up online so that he could go through the frontend with me. Miguel also joined as he was interested in learning. Neel walked through how he had set up the frontend, some issues he was facing and what he had done so far. After his walkthrough, I had to leave as I had a later engagement. However, Neel and Miguel stayed on the call to discuss issues Neel was facing. Neel did also had a pull request and that he would let me if he needed me to approve said merge request.
### 12.10.2022
I followed up with Neel regarding the pull request. He said he would add more to the request once he was home. When he had added the additional items to the merge request he messaged me on the group chat to let me know. I was then able to review the merge request and approved it. Most of the contents of the request had been covered in yesterday's meeting (though I did note that a JEST-test check had not finished running).
### 13.10.2022 
Today we had our tutorial and demo. Our demo went OK. The backend for our project had developed nicely and was well built and robust. Our frontend also had basic pages, as to get an idea of the layout, etc. However, there was little backend and frontend integration. This ultimately meant that we could not achieve more than a pass range mark for the demonstration despite having completed a lot of work.

I felt bad as well. I had not done much work coding wise for this sprint and we were not able to complete the sprint - we had 10 stories (additionally, this is the amount after removing 2 from our original 12) which we were told by our tutor was larger than most groups and we could have tried to achieve about 6-8 stories as most groups did. My tutor and team reassured me that it was ok, that the sprint should have been discussed as a group and further guidance could have been provided. However, I have learnt that I need to pay attention to not just the priority of the story but the size of the story. I need to think about not just how to evenly distribute the stories across a 5 sprint structure, but the workload of each story and sprint. Moving forward, when sprint planning is conducted, it important that we not just think about what to do next, we also need to think about whether the stories are achievable, the sprint is achievable, and external factors such as our workload for other courses as well, and how it all factors into make a sprint sizeable but also achieveable. 

After our demo, we had a quick meeting as a team to conduct the retrospective. We were on the same page and so could succiently conclude that:
* What went well - Backend
* What didn't go well - integration
* What we could try next time - integration.

We then decided to conduct a meeting a later time to finish the report.

## Week 6 
### 17.10.2022
I messaged Neel in the group messenger chat asking for a meeting about the frontend for tomorrow or wednesday. Neel said that he should be free for a call tomorrow but that he would confirm later that evening.
### 19.10.2022
I responded to messages from the team in regard to a meeting to finish the Retrospective A report. I noted that I could do thursday, friday or saturday. I also followed up with Neel as to whether we could meet up to discuss the frontend. As he did not confirm a time for Tuesday or today. We agreed to meet tomorrow at 2pm. For the team meeting I proposed either 3pm or 4pm start.

Later in the evening, I watched some videos regarding JEST. This gave me an overview of how to do testing using JEST but highlighted that I needed components to have been created to test anything for the frontend. However, at this point I did not know which components had been made and if they were ready for testing. This was something I would need to bring up during my meeting with Neel tomorrow.

### 20.10.2022
Today I attended a total of three meetings regarding the project. The first meeting was at 2pm with Neel. The group agreed over earlier that day to meet at 3pm for the team meeting.

The meeting with Neel went for around 30 minutes. At the start of the meeting I had told him that I had watched some videos on Youtube regarding JEST. I told him that while JEST did not look difficult, it was difficult to complete any work as I did not know which pages were done and what components were being created. This also extended to my job of styling components and pages. Thus, what I was looking to get out of the meeting was a clear structure to the workflow for the frontend. 

Neel showed me the pages he had made and the components made so far. However, there were still subject to revisions. What Neel decided to do was to make a board called "Waiting for styling". This would made the workflow easier as after he had completed a user story, he would make comments regarding components, pages, frontend, etc. He would then move the story into "Waiting for styling" and then I would be able to style the components without being worried about it changing or needing revisions as at that point the component should be ready and final. In addition, testing will be left to complete at a later time when components, pages and styling were mostly complete. As at this time, with components being made and revised, it is too difficult to conduct testing. I also asked Neel if he needed any help with creating the pages or components, but he told me that he preferred to do it on his own as it would be easier to manage the code. I understood and so would continue focusing on styling components and testing only.

Neel also showed an overview of theme.ui and the several themes available. He also showed me a document he had created that would be updated with the progression of pages made. We then ended the meeting.

At 3pm, the entire group met. The goal was to organise sprint 2 and complete the retrospective. At first, we talked sprint planning. We went to the JIRA board and organised both sprints 2 and 3. The sprint planning went well because we had the entire team. This meant that both frontend and backend were able to talk about what stories were feasible for both ends for sprints 2 and 3. The sprints now felt more achievable for both ends. While the number of stories hadn't decreased, a lot of them were small stories that would culminate into the completion of a key functionality, meaning that the stories themselves were manageable in size as well. 

Our group did discuss the retrospective. A key decision made was the communication platform. We discussed as a group that throughout these five weeks, communication had been split between discord and messenger which was neither efficient nor great. In particular, I pushed for a clear conclusion from the group as to which platform would be used as this issue had been raised before and it would not be ideal to have this issue persist. Eventually, the group decided on using Discord as the main source of communication, since it also had the ability to create channels for links, pull requests, meeting notes etc. which made organisation and centralisation of information easier. However, if team members needed to be reached earlier, then messenger could be used to reach team members. Our group also agreed to reconvene at 8pm to finish the Retrospective A document. In the meantime, members were to make any dotpoints in the google doc regarding any of the report's points. Further, I opted to take meeting notes for meetings. Originally Miguel made the meeting notes and posted on Discord. However, as he felt most members were not reading the notes he had stopped (though I expressed that I had actually read them). 

Before the meeting at 8pm, I looked at the Retrospective A specification and I cleaned up the report document. I added the meeting notes (date, time and members present), updated the title page and added tables for each section, organising the items/dotpoints currently in the document and writing descriptions for them as required. Some items did not have descriptions e.g. lack of integration between the frontend and backend, as I felt that some members of the team were better able to articulate these items/issues. I then messaged the group on Discord that I had cleaned up the document and that some aspects would preferrably be completed by other members as they could better articulate these points.

Our group then had a meeting at 8pm. As a group we updated the document, provided descriptions and improved/proofread what other members wrote. We also assigned members to some of the items to try next sprint. The item I was assigned was to had regular meetings and stand ups. This meant that I would have to organise for meetings to happen on Monday and remind members to post stand ups when they completed a section of work. The team agreed to leave the document for a day, just in case we needed to make any changes and further proofreading. We then finished our meeting.
### 21.10.2022
I reached out to team members this afternoon to check if everyone is ok with the Retrospective A report. If everyone thought the report was good, then I would submit to Frank and WebCMS3. Everyone felt that the report was good so I submitted the report. This was a good result as we were able to submit the Retrospective A report before the due date of Monday 24 October 2022. 

