
# Project Management and Implementation Challenges

The journey to creating Ensemble over a 10 week term was both rewarding and
challenging. As always, it is exciting to see a product come together and
Ensemble was completed with most of its features as envisioned by our team. By
the end of the 10 week term, we had a fully functional forum that had the tools
that we believed would help course staff teach and students learn, in an online
format. However, it would be selling the experience short to stop here. The
journey to creating Ensemble was not just a rewarding one but also an arduous
one, with the main cause being the scope of the project.

A key takeaway from undertaking a project like Ensemble was that defining the
scope was important, but being aware of the size of the scope was equally
important. For those who wish to undertake a project similar to Ensemble, there
needs to be an awareness that the scope to create a forum is immense and will
require a period of time greater than 10 weeks to complete. As a result of the
immense scope, we had run into a few issues over our four sprints, such as:

1. During the first demonstration, there was very minimal backend and frontend
integration. The first demonstration covered sprint 1 and the difficult
situation was created by the sheer amount of user stories to be completed in a
week - up to 10 (though originally 12). As the frontend required the routes to
be implemented, and the backend was struggling to complete the large number of
routes required by the sprint, there was a mismatch in the pace of development.
This was an issue that persisted throughout the subsequent sprints, where there
was no or minimal integration between the frontend and backend until the final
demonstration.

2. During the second demonstration, it dawned on our group that the scope we
had defined was far too large. This resulted, again, in a lack of integration
which impacted our performance in the demonstration. Further, though our team
had been working very hard on the project, the amount of user stories left to
complete was far too much. We had two weeks left until the final demonstration
and our group was still trying to finish previous sprints. To ensure that we
could complete the project in time, we narrowed the scope of the project. To
view these removed stories, see [removed_stories.md](./removed_stories.md)

3. Though we had completed most of the stories, the scope was still too large.
This meant that we were unable to finish all the remaining stories. Ultimately,
these stories were removed or incomplete because they were not integral to the
core functionality of Ensemble. However, it is a shame that they were not able
to be implemented as they would have added to the experience. Overall, we are
confident that Ensemble is an excellent forum that is well-developed and
contains a rich amount of features to assist students and staff alike, as seen
in the functionality table. To view these incomplete stories, see
[incomplete_stories.md](./incomplete_stories.md).

To see the list of completed stories, see
[functionality.md](./functionality.md).
