
# Documentation

## Where to from here

* [How to use Ensemble](./usage/README.md)

* [Overview of the code in Ensemble](./code/README.md)

* [Information about contributions](./contributions/README.md)

# Ensemble: An Overview

Ensemble was born from the unique experiences of our group - university
students who were undertaking their studies during a global pandemic.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our group studied in an online format.
This lasted over 2 years and while in recent times, courses have transitioned
into a hybrid format, online learning support is still integral to the learning
experience. Further, our group has experienced this not just as students, but
as tutors as well. As a result of this, our group has a deep understanding of
not just the strengths, but the limitations of the existing technologies used
to help students learn in a purely online or hybrid format.

From our unique perspective, our group was able to identify an existing
technology that required improvement to meet the needs of students and teachers
alike - the online forum. While one could argue that there are plenty of
choices, we found that all forum providers were ultimately lacking, whether
that be in regards to UX and UI, Q&A Management, the monitoring of course and
student performance or moderation.

Some examples of key players in the education forum space failing to meet user
needs are Moodle and its poor user experience and interface design. Moodle’s
forum functionality is arguably difficult to find and has a confusing structure
using a ‘blog-like format’.

Further, edStem’s lack of a proper Q&A management system leaves students and
tutors alike frustrated in their struggle to be heard. Students are able to
post questions, but answering of these questions is done by leaving comments.
As students and tutors engage in conversation via comments, they are only aware
of these comments when they receive an email and/or forum notification. This
makes it easy for students and tutors to be inundated with notifications,
leaving questions unanswered as the progression of the conversation is lost in
a sea of noise.

As our group noticed the limitations these forums had and the frustration
experienced by course staff and students alike - being both students and
tutors ourselves, we saw an opportunity to provide a solution to an important
problem. Thus, Ensemble was born.

As we will see from the subsequent sections of the final report, Ensemble will
attempt to address the glaring problems of poor UX and UI and lacking Q&A
Management and forum moderation tools. Ensemble does this through its clean
interface design, thoughtful experience design and unique triage system.

In particular, our triage system is one of our key novel functionalities. It
solves issues regarding Q&A management and moderation through the utilisation
of queues. Course staff will begin with a main queue that will hold all the
open questions to be answered. Additional queues can be created for greater
organisation.

A use case of the queue creation functionality is opening a number of queues to
represent each of the topics taught in the course over a term. The questions
being posted can now be organised according to topic, with staff being able to
answer any of the posts, or just posts in an area of their expertise.The
management of posts once they have been answered, or if unacceptable behaviour
is displayed, is handled by the answered, closed, reported and deleted queues.

This is a powerful Q&A management system that provides course staff with the
tools, interface and user experience needed to ensure that they are able to
answer all the questions posted by students in the course. We’re excited to
share the potential of Ensemble to solve a central issue amongst forums. Over
the course of this final report and demonstration, we hope to demonstrate
Ensemble’s ability to positively transform the learning experience for students
and course staff alike, and improve the facilitation of online education.
